Learning Journal
================

The information below applies to the Learning Journals that you will
submit *after* Preparation 1. Your first submission here should follow
the directions provided in Task 1 of Preparation 1.

## Directions

As mentioned in the
[syllabus](https://sta518.github.io/courses/course-grading/learning-tasks/#learning-journals),
you will be keeping track of what you do and think while progressing
through the course material using Learning Journals. This is a
**private** repository that only you and I have access to.

I will not be judging what you say in these entries or what you have
done in your learning progression. However, by writing what you have
done and what you have looked into, I might be able to provide
additional resources to you if I know of something that might help.
These will be assessed as either “complete” or “not complete”. You can
only submit **one** Learning Journal per day and I plan to assess the
previous day’s entry when I sit down at my desk first thing in the
morning.

You will need to create a new Markdown document in this GitHub
repository using a `<year>-<month>-<day>-entry.md` naming format (where
you provide the correct four-number year, two-number month, and
two-number day; e.g., `2021-01-19-entry.md`) so that they are in
chronological order.

![Jerry Maguire](https://media.giphy.com/media/uRb2p09vY8lEs/giphy.gif)

At certain points during this semester, I will provide you with specific
prompts to answer in your Learning Journal, but you will primarily be
discussing what you have done to learn about statistical computing with
R and reflecting on what has worked, what is still unclear, and what you
might need to do differently. Some approaches to consider in your
reflections (but you are not limited to these approaches) are provided
below with examples.

### Insights-Resources-Application

1.  **Insight** As you work through the course material, keep track of
    three to four new understandings and write a one-sentence bullet
    point briefly outlining these ideas.
2.  **Resource** Find one additional resource such as an online book,
    article, blog, or YouTube video that has similar thoughts, ideas, or
    themes that amplify the material.
3.  **Application** Write a paragraph that relates the material to an
    example from your current or past experiences.

For example, your IRA for the introduction to GitHub activity *might*
look like:

**Insight**: - GitHub is like Google Drive and Git is the track changes
feature. - Branches and Forking allow multiple people to be working on
the same document at once without getting distracted by multiple
cursors. - Pull Requests ask the original project owner to accept your
changes and bring them in (pull) to the main project.

**Resource**:

Jenny Bryan’s [Excuse me, do you have a moment to talk about version
control?](https://peerj.com/preprints/3159/) and Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel’s
image below.

![Version control as building a Lego house with commit
messages](README-images/lego-steps-commit-messages.jpg
"Building a Lego house with commit messages")

**Application**: Working with version control systems are becoming
increasingly easy and is sometimes [built right into
services](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Collaborate-in-Word-b3d7f2af-c6e9-46e7-96a7-dabda4423dd7).
I feel like I have gotten into a good habit of following Jenny’s
recommended [GitHub
first](https://happygitwithr.com/new-github-first.html) sequence when
working by myself (especially when creating materials for this
course\!), but I need to think of ways to make this more natural when
working with others (see image below). Enabling Track Changes early and
discussing why renaming the file each time isn’t necessary with this
feature enabled might be a good place to start when working with Word
users.

![List of files with multiple copies of draft
documents](README-images/multiple-versions.PNG
"Lack of version control in one of my recent projects")

### Concept Map

[Concept
Maps](https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/resources/Teaching/CourseDesign/Assessment-Grading/OngoingAssessments/conceptmap.pdf)
are a way to organize concepts and show how these concepts are
connected. In a concept map, facts are bubbles and connections are
labeled. The example linked before shows why the Earth has seasons.

Your concept maps do not need to be entirely correct as they are a way
to organize what your current thoughts are. Once you draw your concept
map, write an explanatory narrative based on your map.

An example of a concept map for the introduction to GitHub activity
*might* look like:

![Concept map with nodes of GitHub, Collaboration, Repos, Branches, and
Forks](README-images/concept-map-github.jpg "Concept Map of GitHub")

GitHub is a way to share groups projects or documents (called
repositories) with others or future versions of yourself. Users can
contribute to projects created by others when they fork an entire
repository. Within a repository, you can try out different ideas using
branches. Both branches and forks are ways to make copies of
repositories, but they keep track of changes using the Git documentation
system. If you are happy with your new ideas, you can ask for them to be
accepted back to the main project by requesting the owner to bring them
in (pull them into the main repository).

### What? So What? Now What?

As you work through the course material, write responses to these three
questions:

  - **What?** What happened? Was there a difference between what you
    expected and what happened? What did you do?
  - **So What?** What have you learned? Why does that matter? To you? To
    your peers? To other stakeholders? Is the experience in alignment,
    informed by, in conflict with other class material?
  - **Now What?** How can you apply your learning? What information can
    you share with others? What would you like to learn more about?

### Participate in TidyTuesday

[TidyTuesday](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday) is a
weekly twitter activity (follow
[`#tidytuesday`](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23tidytuesday&src=hashtag_click))
put on by the [R4DS Online Learning
Community](https://twitter.com/R4DScommunity). Every week they post a
new dataset, a chart or article related to this dataset, and ask anyone
to explore it. You do not need to post your work publicly, but this
would be a good way to expand your learning and find new tools/packages.
